Rosanna: When I was in public school,
there were really
no other people with disabilities
other than myself and one other girl.
The tools that we had to use
were what we would call today primitive.
[music plays]
Rosanna: Well, I'd say there's a big change
from when I was in elementary school
up until now for sure
because that was before
the ADA even existed.
After the ADA came into existence,
there definitely was more of an
understanding of advocacy.
The one area that I have seen a change
and that really has been marketed in
my lifetime is in the area of technology.
There is so much more
that is available now
to a DeafBlind individual
because of the growth in technology.
So the kids coming up
today have tons more access
to educational materials in order
for them to achieve their goals,
their educational goals.
Rocky: A lot is becoming digital.
In fact, more and more
is becoming paperless.
And that's actually a good thing
for the DeafBlind community.
For example, I'm totally blind.
I have no vision and so
I can't read standard print at all.
While I do have the ability to scan
things using OCR, you know optical character
recognition technology,
or even from time to time
I might ask or hire an actual reader.
The need for that is extraordinarily rare.
You can get just about anything
electronically.
Lydia: Within my lifetime
I definitely know that as a young child
and even into some
of my early teenage years,
there wasn't quite as much advocacy
because change,
as it still is to this day,
was still very much in progress.
But I've definitely noticed over the past,
definitely in the last five years,
a pretty significant
push for more inclusivity.
And along with that comes more advocacy
by persons with disabilities.
I think with the push for inclusivity,
people have been more inclined to speak up
for themselves
and for their needs and
while change is being made,
speaking up as to what can be done
to make the world more inclusive for them.
Alice: The first thing that's changed
productively over time has been travel.
Being able to travel more and
independently without having to always
have somebody be with you and call for you
and that kind of thing.
So the automation part has been great.
Some of the things that they've created
for like crossing
streets have been more productive.
But there is part,
there are things that haven't changed,
like how you navigate the legal system
or your police stations
or those kinds of situations,
that hasn’t improved.
And it's kind of sad to say that it's
still lacking even with the ADA
and knowing that
the accessibility portion
of even accessing your own police station
or your county courthouse or whatever,
and to know that
it's still not done
in the medical area, in hospitals
and that kind of thing,
those are all places
where some of those accommodations
still aren't immediately available
when it kind of should be.
Lydia: I totally agree.
There are a number of gray areas
that still need to be accessed.
And the one area that does continue
to need access, I would say,
is the area of pharmacology.
They are now developing things
like ScriptTalk
so that medication bottles
can be read out loud.
We've come a long way in that
respect, but there is more to be done
in that area as well.
And that's just one of a number of areas
I think, that need to be addressed.
There was a time that people
who were blind, people who are DeafBlind,
were essentially institutionalized.
They were put in, you know,
very bad situations.
I mean, we're talking
Helen Keller’s time, you know.
She didn't have nearly the amount
of resources that we have today.
And the attitudes
were much different.
And so, you know, those who did stand out
like Helen Keller back in their time,
were really recognized
as role models
for the rest of the community.
So I think the societal attitudes
have really changed quite a bit. And,
you know, we don't see people
in institutions anymore.
We see them out working in society.
We're still not where we need to be.
We have a long ways to go.
[music ends]